OK, so at this point, you should either be ready to follow along with me or if you have footage that
you're going to be editing with alongside me while I'm going through these techniques, you should have
that footage cued up on your computer and ready to pick and ready to be organized.
So let's hop in here.
So here we have all my raw footage from my shoot for this project.
Now, it's already in three different folders because I shot it on two separate cameras.
So one camera I captured the one footage or one folder.
I captured the card from the one footage on another folder.
I captured the footage from the card on the five D.
And this one is a mixture of both from a day where I was shooting all the intro shots for the project.
So you can organize the sections or categories of your raw footage in folders, depending on whatever
way makes more sense for your project to specify that raw footage if it's all day time footage that
you want to keep together.
Put that in the daytime footage folder if it's all intro or outro footage you want to put together.
Put that in the folder at this step.
Now, the next thing that we would do would be to copy our raw footage and then navigate to a separate
space that's off of the hard drive that your raw footage is on so that we can have a backup separately.
So I'll create a vlog backup and then I would simply go ahead and copy this footage and paste it into
the backup folder.
And once that's done, we have our footage ready to go.
We have a copy of it.
Next up is to open up our editing software and get things cooking.
I'm going to go ahead and create a new project.
I'm going to title it filming studio vlog, because this is a project where I'm showing the behind the
scenes in the whole process of setting up my brand new studio.
So that's going to be the title.
And then now we're going to go to the original folder right here, and we're going to create a editing
software file, just like we've done before, hit, choose and hit, OK?
That's going to keep all of our editing assets in the proper folder.
Next up, we're going to drag our raw footage into our editing software.
And as you can see, this is a hundred and ninety eight gigs.
So it's going to take a second.
We're going to go ahead and skip forward.
This is why I wasn't able to transfer this specific footage from this project to you guys.
Perfect.
Now we have our raw footage in our editing software, and you're going to notice at the bottom right
of the screen, it says generating peech files.
And it's going through the different movie files that we have.
What that means is it's generating the audio waveforms for our different shots.
So depending on how much footage you have, that's we will dictate how long that process is going to
take.
You can still start your edit while this is happening, but you won't be able to sync up your footage
because it hasn't developed the waveforms to sync up footage to yet.
OK.
And while this is finishing generating our peak files for our footage, because there's a lot of it,
I actually wanted to give a little pro tip here.
Now, you may have noticed that while I was clicking through our raw footage, you might have noticed
this labeling that I did here with color on the side of our clips.
Now, the reason I do that.
So let me just explain by plugging in.
Kill everybody.
There you go.
By plugging in the Sieff car with footage on it, and if we navigate to the main place where the footage
is kept on this card.
We can see that I'm using these color labeling as well, so we have all of these photos from the card.
That are that are one color from one shoot, and then once we go down the card, we have another color
from a different shoot on that card.
So the color is telling me that it's from a specific shoot.
And the color is also telling me, which is very important, that this is content that I captured off
of the card.
If you've done it before, you know that sometimes you pull information, content off the card, you
put it on a hard drive, and then you bring out the card another time and then you don't know.
I did I capture that.
Did I not capture that?
Any time it's labeled with a color, I know 100 percent that it's been taken off the card, put on a
hard drive, and it's ready to be formatted or deleted off the card so that it's not taking up any extra
space.
And the card does it fill up on my next shoot, which is really important.
So if we take a look here, we can see that there's content on this card that hasn't been captured yet.
Why?
Because it doesn't have the labeling.
So that's just a mini protip that I wanted to give you.
That's going to help you as you progress to this intermediate level of editing when there's a lot of
different content from a lot of different shoots or scenes on multiple cards.
So put that trick into your editing tool kit.
And let's hop back into the edit.